This video I'll explain the concepts of resource pools and Wii apps and we'll learn how we can use resource
pools to group together virtual machines for the purposes of assigning shares limits and reservations
on a wide scale.
We can also use resource pools to isolate and compartmentalize workloads.
For example we could create a resource pool that contains our critical virtual machines and use reservations
or high share values to ensure that they get the appropriate performance.
We could also create resource pools with low priority virtual machines and configure resource limit
to place a cap on the resources consumed by those nonessential workloads.
We can also apply access controls and permissions at the resource pool level and those permissions will
be applied to all the virtual machines that are contained within that resource pool.
So let's take a look at a resource pool example.
Here we see ESX I host with 48 gigabytes of memory and within it I've got a group of virtual machines
called Dev and another group of virtual machines called promt and the Prod. virtual machines are configured
with a 1 gig memory reservation.
And here we can see we've created a resource pool for the Dabb virtual machines.
And this is a really simple resource pool.
It contains all the debt venoms and it has a 16 gig memory limit.
Now this means a few things.
Number one it means that all of these devah ATMs can not exceed 16 gigabytes of memory usage.
So the combined group of virtual machines can only account for 16 gigs of memory usage at any given
moment.
The other thing is that this resource pool doesn't guarantee any resources to these Reems.
So if there is resource contention at any given moment it's going to be the share structure that determines
how many resources these virtual machines get.
So let's take a look at the share structure and how it can control contention for resources.
Here we've created resource pools for the Devils and for the production of virtual machines and the
dead VM resource pool has 2000 shares whereas the production resource pool has 4000.
So the production resource pool is entitled to double the memory of the dev resource pool.
So given that the ESX host has 48 gigabytes of memory based on the share structure we can determine
that the death pool is essentially going to have two thirds of that memory entitled to it.
So the death pool is entitled to 16 gigs of memory whereas the production pool is entitled to 32 gigs
of memory.
We can also create a child pool within a resource pool and this is a pool within a pool and with the
effect of a child pool is essentially the same as adding more virtual machines to a resource pool.
So in this case this child pool and all of these production PMS can only draw upon the resources of
their parent pool whatever memory or you that that parent pool is entitled to will be divided amongst
all child pools and all virtual machines that reside within that parent pool.
Now let's take a look at reservations in this case.
We've got a resource pool configured with a 16 gigabyte memory reservation and this is a requirement
if I'm going to create virtual machines with memory reservations inside of this pool so if the proud
V.M. has a 1 gig memory reservation that reservation must be satisfied by the Parent Resource Pool.
And if I have 16 Vians with 1 gig memory reservations all of those reservations need to be satisfied
by the Parent Resource Pool.
If the parent resource pool can not satisfy those reservations the virtual machines will not be able
to boot.
So let's take a little bit of a deeper look at reservations within a resource pool and how they impact
the ability to power on our virtual machines.
Here we see a resource pool with a 16 gigabyte memory reservation and it's been configured on an ESX
host with 48 gigabytes of memory.
And now I start booting up virtual machines and VM one has a 4 gig memory reservation VM 2 has a 4 gig
memory reservation VM 3 has a 3 gig memory reservation and so does VM for it.
So at this point I've successfully booted up four virtual machines within this resource pool and if
you add up all the memory reservations it comes out to a total of 14 gigabytes.
That means that 14 gigabytes out of that 16 gigabyte reservation for the pool have been taken.
The moment you boot up a virtual machine with a reservation it immediately takes those resources from
its parent resource pool.
So at this moment the Parent Resource Pool has 2 gig of memory reservation that I can still allocate
to other Vienna's and if I try to boot some virtual machine with a reservation that exceeds two gigabytes
it won't work.
That virtual machine will not be allowed to boot unless we can figure something called expandable reservations
and that kind of changes this scenario a little bit.
So let's take a look at a resource pool configured with expandable reservations.
Here we see a resource pool with a 16 gigabyte memory reservation.
And let's assume that we're configuring an expandable reservation.
So the moment that we created this resource pool it drew 16 gigabytes of memory from the host.
And if I rewind my side a little bit here you can see the host initially had 48 gigs of available memory.
The moment I create this resource pool it takes 16 gigs of the available memory from that ESX host.
So now I start booting up virtual machines and again I boot up VM one VM to VM three VM four and they
have a total of 14 gigabytes of memory reservations.
And then I boot up VM 5 and at that point my resource pool has two gigabytes of memory reservation that
it has left to allocate.
But in this case this scenario is going to be different.
V.M. five is actually going to successfully boot and what it will do is it will draw its resources that
it needs from the parent resource pool so notice the ESX host route resource for it.
This is the ESX host itself.
This is our resource pool the is I host has 32 gigs of memory remaining before ribu VM 5 and our resource
pool has 2 gigs of reservation remaining.
That means that the resource pool can provide 2 gigs.
But the other two gigs are going to have to come from that route resource pool and thats what an expandable
reservation does.
It allows virtual machines to boot up within a resource pool even if that resource pool cannot satisfy
the reservations.
A V-Amp is very similar to a resource pool.
You can configure Chers limits and reservations on groups of virtual machines.
So it actually gives you many of the same resource controls that a resource pool does.
However app also provides some additional functionality.
So here we see our app and weve created three virtual machines that weve dragged into this via our D-B
app and web virtual machines and these three virtual machines make up a three tier application.
And in this case we know that the db server has the boot for the app server should boot second.
And the web server should boot third.
If we don't boot them in the proper order the multi-tier application won't work properly.
So that's the main function that a VA app gives you that's different than a resource pool.
You can actually go into a VA app and configure power on order and when you power on the app it will
actually power on all these virtual machines in the appropriate order.
If you shut down the VBE it'll carry out those shut down operations in the opposite order.
In review in this lesson we covered the following topics.
We looked at how resource pools can be used to group virtual machines together and allow you to configure
resource controls on a wide scale.
We also learned that permissions and alerts can be configured at the resource pool level and they will
propagate down to the child objects of that resource pool.
The ESX host or de-risk cluster potentially is the root resource pool.
This is the actual hardware that these virtual machines are running on.
And we can create child resource pools within a resource pool and they will draw upon the resources
of that parent resource pool and so all of the objects within a resource pool whether there are child
pools or virtual machines will compete for the resources allocated to that resource pool.
And if you enable expandable reservations on a resource pool virtual machines will be allowed to BU
even if they have reservations that exceed the capacity of the resource pool they exist and.
Finally we learned about Wii apps which are very similar to resource pools but they add on some additional
capabilities most significantly.
Power on order.